For the last part of this demo, we'll try another deployment. Instead of the
first employment where we deploy our application from its initial stage, we'll
be moving it from its blue stage to its green stage.
To help illustrate this,
I've created another version of the task that'll have a green
background instead of a blue background.
So let's get started here.
The first thing we'll need to do is to register a task
definition using this new version of the task.
To do this, we'll need to go into the fargate‑task‑green.json file in
p11‑deploy‑new‑version. Scroll down to the very bottom and replace the
ROLE_ARN with the ROLE_ARN we created a while back.
With this new version of our fargate‑task,
we can then go to the commands‑and‑instructions.txt section
and use the aws register‑task‑definition command to send a
new version of this task into ECS.
So we'll copy that command and then paste it in our CLI. Now importantly,
I need to be inside of the p11‑deploy‑new‑version folder to run
this because it's referencing the fargate‑task‑green.json file
that's right next to this command.
Now once we finish this process,
we'll have to scroll up and find the taskDefinitionArn at the
very top towards where we ran this command.
Honestly,
it should look pretty similar to our previous output
value for our previous task definition.
You'll see that if I actually paste over the previous task definition,
the only thing that changes is the number at the end.
It goes from 1 to 2.
But for right now,
let's leave our previous TASK_DEFINITION_ARN the
same and just paste V2 down here.
We'll use this in the next section.
So, now that we've registered this new version of the task
ARN, let's go down here and make sure that we update the
appspec.yml file to reference that.
So instead of having V1 of the application task, we'll paste this in here and
have :2 at the end of it. Now we save this appspec.yml file, and then we can go
and upload this appspec.yml file to our S3 bucket.
Remember, we have the value for this right here in our output.txt file.
So, let's go back to the commands‑and‑instructions and paste it in here, and
then grab the entire command and run this one more time.
This will upload the new version of our appspec file into our S3 bucket,
and then we can just go back to the CodeDeploy console.
This is what it looked like previously when I had just deployed
the original task set to our infrastructure.
But now what we're going to do is go back to the Applications section,
click on our tutorial‑bluegreen‑app,
go down and click on our deployment groups here,
and we'll create a new deployment.
Now when doing this, we can paste this same value we just
copied if it doesn't appear here directly for us to click on,
and then we can select the revision type of the file, and we'll
click .yml. Now importantly, if we want to change this up a bit,
we can go to Deployment group overrides and go from
ECSAllAtOnce to ECSLinear10PercentEvery1Minutes.
This will change the deployment strategy we're using to
shift traffic from one task set to another over the process
of a few minutes, at 10 minutes, to be exact,
because we'll transfer 10% every single minute. So we'll
leave this as a deployment group override,
and we'll click Create deployment.
Now this deviates from the original deployment strategy that we had,
which was all at once, but it will allow us to start
to shift traffic piece by piece,
and you'll see that the original currently gets 100% of the traffic right now.
But as we go through the deployment process,
this will shift by 10% every minute after we've gotten to
that step. I've waited for a few minutes,
and now we can see that the traffic has started shifting from our
original task set to our replacement task set.
Now in order to see this visually, we can go over to the Services section,
go to EC2 and open that up in a new tab, and if we haven't
already opened up the load balancer from before,
we could go back to the load balancer section and copy this DNS name
here. Now in order to see what this looks like, we'll just paste it
into our browser here and hit Enter.
Currently, we're getting the blue version of the application,
but if I start refreshing the page a few times,
I should eventually get a green version like I did just now.
Now, at the moment, if I keep refreshing it,
I'm going to go back and forth between blue and green, and that's because our
application load balancer is shifting traffic between two different ECS test
sets running different versions of our application.
Eventually,
as our application shifts more traffic over to the replacement, we'll
see the green happening a lot more than the blue.
And when it's finished,
we'll only see the green in our application. Alright, I've skipped ahead
to when the traffic shifting has gone to about 50/50.
So if we go back to our application and start refreshing the page again,
we should start going about 50/50 between the two different colors.
Almost every time I refresh,
we should see a change between the two versions. Now that all the traffic
has been moved over to our replacement task set, if we go back over to the
ALB URL here and start refreshing the screen more, we shouldn't see the
blue version of the application, no matter how many times we refresh the screen.
This is because we finished our deployment, and we're not
serving any of that traffic from the old version.
In a few more minutes,
this deployment should finish and eventually remove the original task
set that's not currently serving any more traffic.
Then it'll clean up all the remaining resources that are running
under the original, and the replacement will become that original
and continue running our application.
You can review the full process and the records down below,
but we're really done for this section here. You've managed to deploy
an application to ECS using AWS CodeDeploy, both the initial version
of the application and a later version with the blue/green deployment
style we talked about earlier.
And we managed to use two different traffic shifting methods, an
all at once method for that original version and the linear
method where we shift 10% of the traffic at a time in the second version that we just did now.